# Access Control (ACL)

## Review, Research, and Discussion

1- When is Basic Authorization used vs. Bearer Authorization?

  Basic authorization is used in the sign in process, and bearer auth is used for the requests after the sign in.

2- What does the JSON Web Token package do?

  It is a package that is used to create and handle web tokens in your app.

3- What considerations should we make when creating and storing a SECRET?

  Storing the secret someplace secure, (.env files are good) and storing secrets with some level of encryption.

## Document the following Vocabulary Terms

**encryption** is the method by which information is converted into secret code that hides the information’s true meaning.

**token** used in bearer authentication, a token is a cryptic string that is generated by the server in response to a login request

**bearer** is dedicated to the authentication using a token. Even if this scheme comes from an OAuth2 specification, you can still use it in any other context where tokens are exchange between a client and a server

**secret** is what is paired with a token, a secret string stored on the server used to sign and encode the token.

**JSON Web Token** is an Internet proposed standard for creating data with optional signature and/or optional encryption whose payload holds JSON that asserts some number of claims.

## RBAC tutorial

  Within an organization, roles are created for various job functions. The permissions to perform certain operations are assigned to specific roles. Members or staff (or other system users) are assigned particular roles, and through those role assignments acquire the permissions needed to perform particular system functions. Since users are not assigned permissions directly, but only acquire them through their role (or roles), management of individual user rights becomes a matter of simply assigning appropriate roles to the user's account; this simplifies common operations, such as adding a user, or changing a user's department.

  Role based access control interference is a relatively new issue in security applications, where multiple user accounts with dynamic access levels may lead to encryption key instability, allowing an outside user to exploit the weakness for unauthorized access. Key sharing applications within dynamic virtualized environments have shown some success in addressing this problem.

  Three primary rules are defined for RBAC:

  Role assignment: A subject can exercise a permission only if the subject has selected or been assigned a role.

  Role authorization: A subject's active role must be authorized for the subject. With rule 1 above, this rule ensures that users can take on only roles for which they are authorized.

  Permission authorization: A subject can exercise a permission only if the permission is authorized for the subject's active role. With rules 1 and 2, this rule ensures that users can exercise only permissions for which they are authorized.

## 5 steps to RBAC

  RBAC is nothing more than the idea of assigning system access to users based on their role within an organization. The system needs of a given workforce are analyzed, with users grouped into roles based on common job responsibilities and system access needs. Access is then assigned to each person based strictly on their role assignment. With tight adherence to access requirements established for each role, access management becomes much easier.

  With the proper implementation of RBAC, the assignment of access rights becomes systematic and repeatable. Further, it is much easier to audit user rights, and to correct any issues identified.

  RBAC may sound intimidating, but it can in reality be easy to implement, and will make the ongoing management of access rights much easier and more secure.

  The data breach you prevent may be your own.

## wiki - RBAC

  In computer systems security, role-based access control (RBAC) or role-based security is an approach to restricting system access to authorized users. It is an approach to implement mandatory access control (MAC) or discretionary access control (DAC).

  Role-based access control (RBAC) is a policy-neutral access-control mechanism defined around roles and privileges. The components of RBAC such as role-permissions, user-role and role-role relationships make it simple to perform user assignments. A study by NIST has demonstrated that RBAC addresses many needs of commercial and government organizations. RBAC can be used to facilitate administration of security in large organizations with hundreds of users and thousands of permissions. Although RBAC is different from MAC and DAC access control frameworks, it can enforce these policies without any complication.